down
down Samsung Galaxy S one of the most
popular names in the world of
smartphones and has been for years
interestingly it's kind of a long name
you might be wondering where Galaxy s
comes from and if you think you already
know what you're thinking is probably
wrong apparently Galaxy comes from a
wine often enjoyed by highlevel Samsung
Executives and then they proceeded to
name like 20,000 phones after it now
here's the thing Samsung will try
anything that's kind of their thing like
this is something I've known about them
for a long time from reviewing their
phones but just from researching for
this video like they have a ton of
phones in every single imaginable price
bracket or feature set or spec sheet
here you can even try to guess these
they've had a Samsung Galaxy F series
what do you think the F stands for
stands for fun then there's the Galaxy Z
series Z for zero and Galaxy m is you'd
think midrange but it actually stands
for Millennial and then Galaxy a that's
some of their most popular affordable
smartphones so naturally it stands for
Alpha there's galaxy W for Wonder Galaxy
R for Royal the list goes on but then
the flagship that's lived at the top of
their lineup is the Samsung Galaxy S and
S stands for super smart yeah super
smart anyway the first ever Samsung
Galaxy S comes out in 2010 just to set
the scene like this is 3 years after the
first ever iPhones come out so the
iPhone 4 is about to come out this is a
couple months after the Nexus 1 gets
unveiled Blackberry is quicking in their
boots like the entire smartphone
industry if you want to call it that is
totally in a reshuffling things are up
for for grabs and it's still very much
in its infancy too the second most
popular phone selling by volume looks
like this it's a Nokia 3720 classic and
so Samsung launches the first ever
Galaxy S super smart into the world with
over two dozen variations this is going
to be a bit of a theme here you know it
a pretty basic phone big touchcreen on
the front some capacitive buttons a
plastic removable back a single camera
today we have Samsung Galaxy s24 and
it's Ultra refined tightly packed
supercomputer in the palm of your hands
with high resolution cameras and
displays powerful processors AI features
like just a ton of optimizations that
have stacked up over the years to get to
this point so today I've got every
single Samsung Galaxy S that has ever
been released they're all in front of me
actually it's every main Galaxy S
variant from the S1 to the s24
everything in between and I'm going to
review them all and some of them I've
reviewed before and others are like the
first time I've ever gotten them working
on camera but either way it'll be fun to
go back and go through this is the story
of how we got to where we are today and
where it started so buckle up we're
going to Jump Right In also stay tuned
for the graphs at the end like usual
they're super fun so Samsung Galaxy S
this is the first one summer 2010 and
yeah it does clearly look old with the
classic four capactive buttons at the
bottom Android .1 and it's a micro USB
port at the top next to the headphone
jack but I feel like right off the bat
you can see Samsung differentiating
itself here first of all this is a
reasonable display this is a 4-in screen
and it's a Samsung made AMOLED display
so that's a huge deal back in these days
you could see a meaningful difference in
battery life just if you set a wallpaper
with a bunch of black in it because the
pixels didn't have to light up on the
OLED and that was A New Concept back
then it's also only a 1500 mAh battery
so every bit of savings you can get
means a lot also of course this was back
in the day when you could just pop the
back off any phone and just take the
battery out swap it out at any moment
have two batteries if you want to swap
them in and out real quick while the
others are charging we will witness the
death of this feature during this video
but then using this phone now like okay
it feels slow obviously but it's not
really in the laggy or unresponsive way
it's just slow like there's a lot of
solid waiting for anything to happen
especially heavier stuff like the web
browser or opening the camera you just
have to slow down a little bit give it a
second even though this launched with
what at the time was the fastest
Graphics processing of any smartphone
thanks to a Samsung made chip inside oh
and speaking of cameras it launched with
a single 5 megapixel camera on the back
which was capable of shooting actually
720p video right out the box it asks for
a memory card to do a lot of things like
shooting videos because it only comes
with two or 4 gigs of storage out the
box but there's a Micro SD card
expandable storage slot in the back of
the phone so you can go right up to 32
gigs right off the bat so I never used
one of these phones but my favorite
thing about it now is it it's kind of
got the modern shape already it has like
kind of flat sides and a flat back there
is no camera bump uh there is a small
bump in the plastic actually over the
rear-facing speaker because it was
common to put your phone down on a table
or something and without that bump it
would block the speaker and so that bump
literally is just to keep the speaker
open so you can always hear your sound
now you remember how I was saying
Samsung will kind of just try anything
that's been true since the first one
like this first ever Galaxy S launched
with like I said over a dozen variants
and so you might recognize this one as
the Samsung Galaxy S Stratosphere and
you can tell because this is the one
with a little Verizon stamp on its
forehead here but you might have had the
Samsung Galaxy S Vibrant that's what it
would be called if you got the variant
that was made for T-Mobile or the
Samsung Galaxy S Epic 4G which is what
they call the one that launched on
Sprint now in hindsight honestly it
feels like this was Samsung's way of
just getting around carrier exclusives
cuz they basically just made a slightly
different version of this phone for
every carrier in America with a little
bit of a different design and a little
bit of different features only Samsung
only Samsung little did they know this
would be the beginning of a whole empire
so the sequel the first sequel is a
Samsung Galaxy S2 second gen can teach
you a lot so right away a couple things
this phone is no notably bigger and
noticeably sleeker than the first Galaxy
S and these were back in the days where
the percentage increases year-over-year
with some of the stuff they did was
crazy on paper like this went from a 1
GHz chip to a 1.2 GHz dual cord chip so
that's just more than double the
processing power it also went from a 4in
screen to a 4.3in screen it goes from a
5 megapixel 720p camera to an 8 megap
camera on the back shooting 1080p it
doubled the ram up to a gbyte it bumped
up to a 1,650 mAh battery and the amount
of Base storage I guess you would say
ouled from 2 gigs all the way up to 16
and it did all that in a phone that got
thinner and it also added NFC so it
added pieces and now this is an 8 and2
mm phone so this is one of the thinnest
phones in the world at the time that it
came out now the starting price also did
go up a lot from $3.99 to $5.49 but this
phone did launch into a relative success
this sold like 3 million units in the
first 2 months this
was definitely the first one to show up
on my radar I never owned one of these
phones but I definitely saw it and
thought about it but then this next one
the Galaxy S3 in 2012 this is the first
Samsung Galaxy S that I actually owned
and I remember loving this thing I
remember it well too the jump up and
size again was very real so it's all the
way up to a 4.8 in phone now which
believe it or not like this is starting
to push the limits of what people
considered an appropriate phone size cuz
I remember around this time there were a
lot of phones that that were hitting
exactly 4.65 in like that was a popular
phone screen size for the big phones at
the time and anything near 5 in kind of
felt like weird like a tablet size and
here's Samsung's flagship pushing 4.8 in
of screen and then the four capacitor
buttons down at the front are now just
three buttons the search button's gone
so it's a home button that's a physical
button with back button on the right and
menu on the left and this is also the
first time we got a voice assistant on
the phone and they called it SVO
clever I know this is a a pretty direct
response to we just got Siri announced
on the iPhone the year before but you
know S Voice s for Samsung they also use
S for a bunch of other stuff S Notes so
Samsung voice S Voice Now S Voice wasn't
good but then again neither were any of
the other voice assistants that were
coming out so this is mostly just people
poking around asking it to do things
random facts just weather things like
that what turned out to be much more
significant with this phone is just this
super sleek design the whole thing is
shaped like a thin Pebble that you could
probably skip across a lake it's
inspired by Nature the whole OS leaned
into that it had a ton of water droplet
sounds everywhere the lock screen went
from swipe to unlock to dragging your
finger through this water like it was a
pretty strong theme for them but I
remember using this phone and reviewing
it this is back in college for me I
loved it it was also received very well
and the combo of like being super slim
and fast and having a huge OLED and S
Voice had it starting to get touted like
the iPhone killer um but I think more
interestingly they thought this phone
was big enough to Warrant an S3 Mini cuz
this is a 4.8 in screen like I said kind
of giant and so they came out with the
one with a 4in display Galaxy S3 Mini at
the same time cuz of course they did but
the next year we got Samsung Galaxy S4
which was the beginning of a lot of
things what do I feel like the fourth
generation of any major new product is
like the defining one this is this one's
no exception now of course they're still
making gigantic leaps on paper with
specs cuz these little pocket computers
are getting more and more capable of
everything they do so it goes from a 4.8
in 720p screen to being one of the first
phones with a 5 in 1080P screen in the
age of a bunch of new retina displays
that are aiming for the best pixel
density then they also had variance all
the way up from 1.4 to 1.9 GHz dual core
processors it again doubled the Ram from
1 to 2 gb and that single back camera
went from 8 megapixels to 13 megapixels
so this is the first time you could take
1080p videos from the camera on the
Galaxy S and then watch them on the
1080p screen on the front of the Galaxy
S pretty sick this also goes from a
2,000 mAh battery to a 2600 mAh battery
still removable uh a 30% increase is
pretty crazy but again they just keep
aiming for one day of battery life
that's been a theme since this long ago
like yes these things get more and more
powerful every year and they're doing
more and more stuff but as long as I can
hit one day of battery life they seem
cool with that now if you want more
proof of Samsung just trying a ton of
things this phone had a ton of random
features some of them actually are kind
of interesting cuz they feel like the
the AI features of back in this day so
like this is the phone that tried head
tracking smart scrolling so when you're
reading something you can tilt your head
forward and backward to scroll through
the page it's just insane it had smart
rotation so this is actually cool if you
have auto rotate on but you're looking
at the screen while reading something
and then turn sideways it won't rotate
the screen it'll keep it right side up
Smart Pause is fun you're watching a
video you look away from the screen
it'll automatically pause you look back
it'll play again so there's lots of
stuff like this some of it sticks some
of it doesn't fine but this was also
partially used to justify another
increase in price for this phone so S4
at launch I don't know if you remember
this it launched at
$650 this is also the first time Samsung
made an active version of the phone so
another variant so Galaxy S4 Galaxy S4
Active so this added IP67 certification
and a more rugged design it was a TFT
LCD display instead of AMOLED and it
traded some other small downgrades for
like physical buttons and a slightly
thicker phone with some flaps to cover
the ports I'll tell you what was not
really a major hit though this was one
of the first major incidents of a
Samsung phone battery swelling Catching
Fire and burning up on someone now it
didn't go happen to a ton of people it
wasn't enough to become a major Trend
but it's something to sort of remember
for the future foreshadowing now by the
time we get to Galaxy S5 Samsung is
starting to hit their stride I think
with the Galaxy S another huge battery
bump now it's up to 2800 milliamp hours
and another huge screen bump all the way
up to 5.1 in diagonally and across the
board this is uh I think fully Flagship
in every dimens mention it's a it's a
2.7 GHz processor on some variants all
right 2 to 3 gigs of RAM up to 32 gigs
of storage and it's a 16 megapixel
camera that now shoots 4K video also the
bottom left button has gone from a menu
button to a multitasking button to match
the three primary buttons needed to
operate Android but also says a lot
about what it's capable of but then of
course alongside all that is the
absolute classic Samsung just trying
things and I think the Telltale sign for
this stuff like is when you see them try
it for one generation just to throw it
at the wall and see what sticks and then
it's gone the next year like they added
this little sensor back here next to the
camera flash on the back that's a heart
rate sensor so you could measure your
heart rate plugs into S Health that
didn't last very long they also added
this weird texture for the first time to
this plastic back that you know made it
a little softer yes but also totally
made it look like a Band-Aid plus it
even came in this flesh color that also
didn't stick around long they also added
a fingerprint reader to the home button
fun fact back in these days you actually
had to swipe your whole finger across
the home button to get it read of course
fingerprint readers have stuck around
but it doesn't have to be swiped anymore
so that's improved significantly and you
can see this weird port at the bottom
here the Galaxy S5 has a sort of a
double Port basically it could be used
as just normal micro USB for charging
but if you wanted full USB 3.0 data
speeds there was a special like
double-ended cable you could plug in to
use all the pins and get that kind of
weird that didn't stick around long
either also there was a a flap on the
bottom of all these phones for water
resistance and they were super easy to
fall off and this one also fell off
naturally they also released both an
active and a separate sport version of
this phone alongside the regular Galaxy
S5 of course they did so Samsung Galaxy
S6 came out in 2015 but truthfully this
was the beginning of a new era for
Samsung phones you can look at it and
see it this this is when they entered
the modern age for better for worse so
this phone was the first one with a
fully glass back instead of plastic
which yes made it their first non-
removable back ke all the outrage in the
comments of every YouTube video at the
time but it also added uh wireless
charging and they dropped these metal
rails and metal buttons on the sides
that felt way more solid than all the
plastic we were working with on all the
flagships that came before it and this
phone is Sleek like footprint wise it's
literally the same size as an iPhone 15
Pro from today but turn it sideways and
it's one of the slimmest phones ever
thanks to having a 2550 mAh battery yes
that's actually smaller than the
previous year now this is a recipe to
make enthusiasts particularly mad when
you go backwards it's not great so they
heard that this went from a 2800 to a
2500 milliamp battery and it's not
removable anymore and it also no longer
has the micro SD card for expansion of
your storage and on top of that you also
went from that weird USB 3.0 thing down
technically to USB 2.0 but aside from
that this still did feel like their
first really modern piece of Hardware
this is also the first time we're
getting a
1440p AMOLED display it's crazy sharp
already we haven't seen a higher
resolution since then and it's also the
first Galaxy S Flagship with Optical
image stabilization in the primary
camera so this is a really big camera
upgrade and it was the first Galaxy S
Flagship to use 64-bit processing I do
remember there was a lot of positive
reception around this phone obviously
from being well put together in metal
and glass now and having good features
and just generally being the same price
as the previous year I just feel like
there was one thing holding it back
especially Among Us critical reviewers
from being the obvious best Android
phone available at that time and her
name was TouchWiz see around this time
there were also some other big
Enthusiast Android options like Nexus 6p
and 5x which were stock Android and then
there was HT C1 M9 just down the street
with their own HTC software LG G4 was
out with their own software it's like
every Android device scen at this time
when it comes out it's like what are the
specs what are the features what's the
design and then what is the Android skin
that you have to deal with to get it now
Touchwiz has gotten better over time
it's you know a little less bloop nature
sounds but it's still absolutely a skin
on top of Android rather than super
integrated into Android itself which can
make performance feel a little slow it
can slow down how quickly updates come
to this phone over time because they've
got to go through Samsung but it gives
you a bunch of extra features in return
So at the time if you go back if you
watch my videos around the phones at
this time I always preferred like stock
Android OEM just straight from Google
it's always the fastest updates and it
just felt the cleanest and most coherent
where Samsung TouchWiz just had this
this colorful cartoony look to it this
feel to it it was a little cluttered but
it it had the features it had What
mattered anyway with S6 they also tried
a little thing called the S6 Edge and
Edge Plus because there was this war
being fought at the time every time you
saw a keynote with a new smartphone
announcement they always mentioned
screen to body ratios and so every
Flagship if they can improve the best
number they would always brag about the
screen to body ratio how thin their
bezels are and the best phones at the
time were hovering around 70%
meaning 70% of the front of the device
is screen and the bigger that number the
cooler the phone looks so this S6 Edge
thing came along and it's another bit of
Samsung Innovation just trying some
stuff but they literally bend the OLED
display right over to the edges of the
phone and use curved glass to make it
look like the display is like bleeding
right over the edges of the device hence
the edge name obviously there's still a
bezel but it kind of worked it looked
really cool uh this actually came at
first from when when they originally
tried it in the Galaxy Note which they
had it on one side of the screen which
is some like software tickers they
literally put like a stock ticker on the
side of the phone they would try
anything to see if it worked and when it
did they put it on both halves and now
it's on the Galaxy S and it felt like
the flagship thing so this phone got up
to a 76% screen to body ratio with the
S6 Edge Plus this is starting to feel
like the top of a flagship lineup now
Galaxy S7 was a kind of an incremental
year in between you know holding it now
you can tell they didn't really feel the
need to change too much like it's the
same size same screens and resolutions
same storage sizes up to 128 gigs and
they actually brought back expandable
storage by popular demand so I guess you
can talk Samsung into some stuff and you
still can't take the back off this thing
but they went ahead and added a Micro SD
card slot on the SIM card tray which is
clever but what I feel like they really
realized this year is two things one wow
you can really shove a lot of batteries
in these things and two The Edge is the
flagship people love the edge people
just love the screen melting over the
sides things so they're going to do a
lot more of it so the regular S7 was
great but the S7 Edge had a 3,000 mAh
battery and the S7 Edge Plus had a 3600
mAh battery and then the S7 active had a
4,000 milliamp battery but for reference
this is also the same year that the
Galaxy Note 7 came out so you may recall
the issues that plague the phone and its
3500 mAh battery the exact issue the
reason why the note 7s started blowing
up and having dangerous battery problems
was specifically a design issue using a
thin separator between two electrodes in
a battery it was just damaged way too
easily where wild reactions would occur
when that damage happened for as many
gates as we've had for smartphones like
Ben gate whatever this has to be the
greatest PR disaster in the history of
smart phones like I think by a long way
like people this got banned on planes
like people would just ask do you have a
Samsung phone like I don't think you
want to take that on the plane it was
literally recalled worldwide they took
all of them back they couldn't sell it
anymore it's a big issue and honestly a
lot of tech companies would never
recover from that but Samsung at this
point was established enough they were
big enough they were trying enough new
things that they could weather that
storm which is impressive then Samsung
Galaxy S8 this is one of my favorite
phones they added a lot of things to
this phone now still classic Samsung
thrown an absolute metric ton of stuff
at the wall to see what sticks now I
definitely didn't love all the stuff
that they tried but I love that they
were trying stuff and they tried so many
things that these phones just feel a
world apart so first of all there was an
S8 and an S8 plus and both have fully
curved Edge displays so Samsung's
realized that this Advantage is received
really really well and they can just
keep touting their massive screen to
body ratios plus they've refined their
EDG screen apps feature it's subtle it's
out of the way but it's useful for those
who want to take advantage of it then
they also tried this new pressure
sensitive layer underneath the display
right around the home button so the
display can always respond to pressures
in this area no matter where you are
even while the screen is off now this is
also as you may have guessed right
around the time that Apple was trying 3D
touch or Force touch in the iPhone and
both of these didn't last very long but
they tried and they also tried a
slightly taller narrower 18 1 12 by9
aspect ratio which actually did nicely
keep the ever growing screen size to be
pretty reachable uh since they've also
gone from capacitive buttons below the
screen to all onscreen buttons so now
talk about screen to body ratio like we
are really cooking they also switched to
USBC for the first time sick easy win
people are asking for that last year
anyway but then with that they also
tried this thing called Dex which is
like if you plug that USBC Port into a
computer computer monitor you get this
whole computer UI which just uses the
phone as like a trackpad and then you
might have noticed the extra button here
on the left hand side so fun fact for
the entire history of every single
Samsung Galaxy S so far they have always
had power button on the right hand side
volume rocker on the left hand side and
that's still true here but they've added
a button underneath the volume
rocker and yeah that's that's the Bixby
button so Bixby is the new voice
assistant replacing SVO on Samsung
phones and Samsung really leaned in hard
with this one so not only did it get a
dedicated button to activate it all the
time but the camera also now has Bixby
Vision which is kind of like a an
awkwardly specific competitor to Google
lens and this is Samsung really leaning
into the whole AI assistant thing for
the first time and I would say to mixed
success then they also tried a
fingerprint reader on the back of the
phone this time since there's no home
button anymore love that and then they
also tried this this plastic Snap-on
keyboard which I think honestly might be
in my top five worst smartphone
accessories of all time but even after
all of that I think the most important
or the most impactful decision for this
phone for Galaxy S8 was their choice to
use Qualcomm Snapdragon chips in some
regions and Samsung's own made exos
chips in other regions now at the time
or even in hindsight this was a pretty
smart move maybe even ahead of their
time because this is Samsung going all
right we want to make our own chips for
our phones so so that we can maximize
the efficiencies and all the the power
and the things that we do in our phones
we want them to all be built by us and
also to not give Qualcomm so much money
while we're at it but also in hindsight
this failed spectacularly this was like
an ongoing thing they really wanted to
do but because they didn't go all exos
right from the get-go they split it they
had some exos and some Snapdragon the
Snapdragon phones would consistent L and
regularly outperform the exos version of
the same phone across the board better
performance better efficiency better
battery better heat it literally got to
the point where prospective buyers would
jump into subreddits and forums to try
to find where they could import a
Qualcomm version of the phone instead of
the xnos one available in their own
country and there are a whole bunch of
tutorials on if you're buying a
secondhand one how do you know which
version you're getting just based on the
serial number just so you can avoid the
exos version like I said in hindsight
ahead of their time a bit here but big
backfire nevertheless there was lots of
other stuff that was so new about this
phone it Justified another increase in
price all the way up to
$750 that's today's prices so Galaxy S9
I'm going to say this was Peak Samsung
Galaxy S I loved this galaxy S9 and
again it was Galaxy S9 and S9 plus now
this was a relatively incremental update
versus S8 but you know slightly thinner
bezels same Ram same storage but a
slightly improved processor nice colors
I like these colors and then they also
moved that fingerprint sensor on the
back from right next to the camera to
right under the camera otherwise you
know what basically the same thing but
then they had to try some stuff so this
time they tried this dual aperture thing
with the camera and it was super cool
basically it could snap between f1.5
wide open and f2.4 a variable aperture
in a smartphone it's it's a clever
little thing that would let you receive
as much light as possible in low light
situations but when you have plenty of
light it would stop down to 2.4 and it
would get more in focus it would be a
sharper better looking photo and I
remember I loved it when I used it other
reviewers loved it when they used it and
then it was gone from the next phone
Samsung we missed this bring it back but
honestly this is one of those phones
picking it up now like I've talked about
this before if you could bring back any
old phone design from whatever year and
just modernize it with new specs and new
software I think between HTC1 M8 or M9
and this phone pretty good candidates
this this thing is Sleek it's just a
great size it's a 1440p OLED USB typc
still has a headphone jack obviously the
fingerprint reader is in a good spot
just a really great overall package and
I said as much in my original review
back in 2018 now is it still Samsung
software yeah but at this point there
are so many features jammed in here that
it's kind of undeniable the utility and
yeah people are totally willing to live
with it as long as you know what you're
getting into with a Samsung phone fun
fact this is also the year that Samsung
unveiled the Galaxy home a small Weber
grill shaped speaker designed to be an
AI assistant in your house with
Bixby it's been about 2,000 days since
that
announcement no word on it since then I
don't think it's officially been
cancelled maybe they just want us to
forget about that one so then Samsung
graduates to the Galaxy S10 this I think
could be argued also maybe as Peak
Samsung since they've now basically just
gone full screen to the point where
reviews are complaining about the last
few millimeters of forehead and Chin
like you see how the chin is just a tiny
bit bigger but yeah up at the top we've
gone right up to the earpiece and the
selfie camera is now a cutout in the top
right hand corner giving birth to a
whole new genre of meme wallpapers
screen to body ratio is approaching 9 0%
now and we're basically just looking at
Samsung's best-in-class 1440p AMOLED and
not much else and now these phones have
gotten irreversibly big S10 has a 6.1in
display and the S10 plus would be
6.4 borderline tablet sized 10 years
removed from the original but truly
entering us into the Modern Age this is
the first Samsung phone with more than
one camera on the back and in Samsung
fashion they just jump straight to three
obviously so there's a primary camera a
2X telephoto camera and a0 5x Ultra wide
phones would never look the same after
this point every phone up until now so
far has had just that tiny little camera
bump just a single little circle or oval
on the back but as soon as you open this
box you're never going back cameras are
now a feature on the back of a phone and
you'll also notice there is no
fingerprint reader on the back of this
phone because this is also the first one
that they tried that ultra Sonic
fingerprint reader underneath the
display glass and it's they pretty much
nailed it right from the get-go I
remember testing it and seeing if it
will work underwater and if it was
scratched at all it was fine it haven't
really improved in much since these days
so it seems like they nailed it they
still use it but the thing that maybe
brought this phone the most into the age
of modern smartphones might just be the
price so Samsung's been throwing a ton
of stuff at the wall for years and now
they've just built out this whole lineup
but S10 starts at
$900 when it comes out and then they
have the S10 Plus which starts at a
th000 they also had an S10 5G which was
an even bigger even more expensive
version of the phone with a bigger
battery to support you know 5G radios
because 5G is sort of burgeoning at this
time expensive phones I think that
actually is why one of my favorite new
releases around this time was this
little new thing they made called the
s10e and this thing you know it's not
quite a mini but this is where Samsung
made a couple little corner cutting
decisions to separate the true Flagship
from something a little more budget
friend so for $750 it has a slightly
smaller and slower charging battery and
a power button fingerprint reader
instead of the ultrasonic unders screen
one but honestly probably a better deal
than the flagships that it was up
against so now on to the next one Galaxy
s20 and no we didn't skip any phones
here basically 2020 is the year Samsung
decided that they were going to sync up
the year of the calendar with the year
of the phone so we have s20 in 2020 I'm
sure that has nothing to do with the
fact that the number was always slightly
behind the FL Flagship iPhone but now
this galaxy s20
looks
blank boring soulless what happened like
this feels like this is a complete blank
phone like if you put the S10 next to
the s20 and then not to jump too far
forward but the S21 it looks like they
took a year off with the s20 like this
might be the most generic phone of all
time now to be fair there are other
phones that have looked like this and
again this is Samsung's flagship for
years and we know they're going to start
to play it safe but in hindsight this
one is pretty dull it also happens to be
the first ever Galaxy S since the very
beginning to move the volume rocker to
the right side that's a choice it also
is the first one to not say the model
number on the back at all with the text
it's just blank and it's also the first
Galaxy S to follow in the footsteps of
the iPhone after making fun of them and
removing the headphone jack also a
choice now I do love that this was
officially the first Galaxy S Flagship
with 120 Herz display and they actually
moved the smaller hole punch camera to
the top middle and was the first to be
able to record 8K video so it's still
gaining capabilities it's not like the
ball didn't move forward at all with
this phone but probably the more
interesting Dynamic is what was
happening at the very top of the lineup
see this is the first year of the Ultra
phone so s20 still a regularized phone
th000 phone but they also decided to
make a gigantic phone with the most
possible numbers and the highest 10
possible specs and make it an Ultra and
this was kind of fighting at the top of
the lineup with the Galaxy Note because
up until this point you know they tried
a whole bunch of stuff and they ended up
having this particularly successful
high-end phone with a stylus in it that
was if you wanted even more than the S
could offer you could go buy a Galaxy
Note so this phone in this year kind of
just like its design just kind of got
forgotten until later in the year when
they dropped The Fan Edition the Fe of
the exact same phone cut a couple things
things down 1080p removed like one or
two features 700 bucks and this phone
was a great deal this one my phone of
the year but also fun not so fun fact uh
this galaxy s20 has also started
swelling like the battery has started to
bulge to the point where it's pushing
the back of the phone off of the chassis
through the glue so I'll just say I've
had a lot of smartphones come through
the studio we review a lot of phones
obviously and we've had basically a
large sample size of smartphones in
long-term storage and the only brand
that's had more than one smartphone
whose battery swells up like a balloon
to the point where we have to get rid of
it is Samsung but then the year was
2021 and Samsung drops Galaxy S21
definitely bringing us up to the current
design language that is so recognizable
as a Samsung phone so this triple camera
is now on the corner of the back it's
unmistakable now in fact this might be
their best one with the metal piece
melting over the sides and specifically
this purple and gold color way I think
it's kind of iconic this is also the
beginning of the base models being
extremely boring I'm calling it now like
the the the action's way higher and
lower in the lineup like the note
fighting the ultra for Supremacy that's
crazy also The Fan Edition and the a
series kind of fighting each other to be
the best overall value but sitting in
the middle kind of in no man's land that
just can't mess anything up and has to
play it safe well that's exactly what
the S21 did they actually bumped down to
a 1080p display they are back to Flat
displays now no more expandable storage
in this model no more charger in the Box
for this model whatever the industry is
doing that's what they're doing like
there's no leadership here there's just
just enough brand cache that like if
they make a Samsung version of the phone
that everyone's buying in stores and put
it next to that in the store people will
just buy the Samsung one so Galaxy s22
is more along the same track slightly
more boring colors slightly flatter
edges all the way around but on the
upside this thing also does basically
have perfectly thin bezels all the way
around at this point so I think the
screen to body ratio now is well into
the '90s and frankly I don't even care
what the number is anymore I just feel
like there's so little bezel to hold
with my fingers that anything less
wouldn't really make any sense so the
bezel is effectively gone at this point
it makes perfect sense to go back to the
perfectly flat displays because Samsung
has now realized and everyone else has
realized that those curved displays
they're kind of cool and they looked
cool in the past but they were kind of a
crutch to make the phone appear to have
a larger screen to body ratio than it
actually did but now that we have the
tech to go right up to the edges and the
corners you don't have to curve the
display anymore it just looks sick and
is flatter and is more durable so
actually maybe the most notable change
on the outside here is these phones are
now slightly smaller than the previous
year so it went from 6.2 and 6.7 in to
6.1 and 6.6 in for s22 and s22 plus and
there is no doubt in my mind that that
is specifically to give more room and a
bigger Gap to the Ultra phone at the top
of the lineup the ultra has been doing
battle with the note it's winning it
stole the Spen from it and so with these
boring default base phones for 750 bucks
flat totally fine just just look up
there though there's some more expensive
phones you can spend more money so the
Galaxy s23 was interesting for one
reason and one reason only no more exos
version so every single Galaxy s23 and
Galaxy s23 plus and s23 Ultra ships with
the same slightly customized Qualcomm
Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 for Galaxy and yeah
performance is great you know for all
the years that they've been trying to
catch up the exos chip to the Snapdragon
chip they finally gave up on it which
you could argue is good news because
everyone now gets the good Snapdragon
performance and efficiency now but it's
also kind of bad news because there's
less competition there's that much less
incentive for Qualcomm to do anything
particularly great here the whole goal
for exos chips was supposed to be better
customization and integration and while
we got rid of that they can still claim
with s23 to have done at least some
customization because they've like I
said they've made it a 4 Galaxy chip so
it's not quite the off-the-shelf one
every else gets what's
different slightly higher clock speeds
slightly more powerful cuz they've got
better Cooling in these phones so
mission accomplished aside from that
they've removed even more character by
getting rid of the signature camera bump
and making an even more generic and
Universal appeal phone than ever before
just same set of cameras same aspect
ratio same features just slightly more
battery in both versions nobody's saying
these phones are bad they're just not
not making exciting strides the way they
used to back in the day which brings us
to this year's Samsung Galaxy
s24 even more boring colors and even
more generic design and even more
playing it safe than ever before this
year it's the Snapdragon 8 gen 3 and
this chip enables some pretty
substantial AI features which they lean
into it makes the phones really good
stuff like live translation and
generative photo editing call screening
and my personal favorite Circle to
search is awesome but a lot of the AI
features are now making their way to
some other phones and circle to search
isn't an exclusive the pixel has that
too and frankly aside from just getting
flatter edges and slightly bigger
batteries they share a lot of parts with
the previous year's phones like the
cameras uh the screen resolutions they
bumped up a little bit but functionally
the same screen to body ratios the same
maybe the buttons are clicker maybe
that's enough these phones are all grown
up now so now we've seen the glow up the
the different eras the plastic to the
glass the iconic to the static but my
favorite way to visualize all these
different types of improvements is the
graphs so welcome to my favorite section
the graph section now before we jump
fully in a quick word from our Channel
sponsor dbrand fun fact they've been
supporting these devices since the
Galaxy S4 that is a long time now
they're also supporting all the way up
to Galaxy s24 and I think this year with
these phones a lot of us were expecting
to get ch2 support to get kind of like
that ring of Mag safe style magnets but
for whatever reason the Stars didn't
align so this phone doesn't have that
but with dbrands cases for the s24
series they all come with magnets built
in so that means basically any ch2 or
mag safe accessories will work on the
s24 so they essentially give you that
easy alignment on any wireless charger
pretty sick uh you can check it out at
the link below in the description so
let's take a look at how far these
phones have come these are really
interesting and there's a couple of them
I think Samsung is the first one one
that has notable ups and downs in their
progress graphs which is really
interesting it kind of feels like
they're going backwards but there's
reasons behind all of it also this could
be a way crazier graph because they
obviously split out and Fork into a
bunch of different models The Edge
models the plus models the ultra models
the active models but I'm just sticking
with just the base models just for pure
Simplicity of visuals so first up screen
sizes so these are the screen sizes of
the base Sam Galaxy S over every single
year starting at the original 4in
Samsung Galaxy S then really quickly
jumping up into the fives and then kind
of slowing down and settling in right
around 6 in you can actually see a
slight dip where the S10 was 6.1 in then
it was 6.2 again then back to 6.1 to
make room for the ultra then back up to
6.2 again feels like now there's a sort
of a dedicated gigantic phone so this
rate of growth has pretty much evened
out so the huge phone is the ultra which
is 6.8 in which is crazy but here's a
fun fact based on this chart maybe it's
not a fact but you can make an argument
that the Galaxy s20 was kind of peak
Samsung cuz that is the same screen size
as today's Base phone but hold that
thought let's look now at battery sizes
so you know battery life hasn't really
improved dramatically we're still at a
day for a good phone but the physical
capacity of these batteries able to fit
in these phones has improved
significantly as well so you can see it
starts at500 milliamp hours removable of
course and nearly doubles by the Galaxy
S5 but then it dips right when they
introduce the edge phones then they
shoot back up again but again kind of
flatlines in line with a certain
memorable battery related event but then
they eventually got the courage to walk
back up the base phone all the way to
4,000 milliamp and what do you know
again you can argue Galaxy s20 is Peak
Samsung that's the first year of the
4,000 mAh battery and that is still the
battery size again now the primary
camera megapixel count this one's a
little more interesting maybe a little
more classic improvement over time of
course megapixels don't mean everything
but it's fun to see the priorities
increase over time at the beginning
there was a lot of incentive to just
level up from 720p to 1080p video and
then to 4K video but once we hit 8K you
know there's not any reason to go too
crazy with megapixels beyond that of
course the highest end Ultra phones
quickly blasted the ceiling way up all
the way to 100 megapixels and then 200
this year which is nuts but for the
Baseline phone you know most people's
screens aren't 50 megapixels so I think
this is a very appropriate Plateau but
then last but not least starting price
we all know what happened with
smartphones over the years and here you
can see it visualized the steep climb
through 400 500 600 bucks right up to
the $900 ceiling for the Bas Galaxy S
this is the base phone now the most
expensive phone has of course gotten
dramatically more expensive too so again
that ceiling lifting with the ultra has
allowed Samsung to go way up to $1,300
starting and today you can pay 1660 for
the 1 TB Galaxy s24 Ultra but that has
at least helped bump the base price back
down a little bit to the $799 of today
so that's how we got from here to here
from Galaxy S1 to
s24 these videos are super fun to sort
of look back and actually visualize that
progress over time I also feel like I
already know which one we want to do
next get subscribed make sure you see
that coming up either way thanks for
watching catch you guys in the next one
peace from two gigs
all I deserve that